docs/guides/exportOculusAPK.md, before:

---
title: Export XR site to Oculus Mobile APK 
section_title: Guides
type: guides
layout: docs
parent_section: docs
order: 1
section_order: 2
---

This guide explains how to package your XR site with the Exokit Engine as an APK for Oculus Mobile (Oculus Go, Oculus Quest) devices.

## Set default site
In the Exokit [main.cpp](https://github.com/exokitxr/exokit/blob/f10dadf0013de0a35a5e72046140a0345987ab80/main.cpp#L416) is where you will find the default site that the Exokit APK will load into. Change the `jsString` to your site URL or file path.

## Prerequisites
Node `11.6.0`

## Install Android sdkmanager

Instructions for getting the android sdk manager, adb, ndk-bundle, etc:


To install it on a Debian based system simply do
```sh
# Install latest JDK
sudo apt install default-jdk

# install unzip if not installed yet
sudo apt install unzip

# get latest sdk tools - link will change. go to https://developer.android.com/studio/#downloads to get the latest one
cd ~
wget https://dl.google.com/android/repository/sdk-tools-linux-4333796.zip

# unpack archive
unzip sdk-tools-linux-4333796.zip

rm sdk-tools-linux-4333796.zip

mkdir android-sdk
mv tools android-sdk/tools
```

Then add the Android SDK to your PATH, open ~/.bashrc in editor and add the following lines into the file
```
# Export the Android SDK path
export ANDROID_HOME=$HOME/android-sdk
export PATH=$PATH:$ANDROID_HOME/tools/bin
export PATH=$PATH:$ANDROID_HOME/platform-tools

# Fixes sdkmanager error with java versions higher than java 8
export JAVA_OPTS='-XX:+IgnoreUnrecognizedVMOptions --add-modules java.se.ee'
```
Run

`source ~/.bashrc`

Show all available sdk packages

`sdkmanager --list`

Accept all sdkmanager licenses
`yes | $ANDROID_HOME/tools/bin/sdkmanager --licenses`

Identify latest android platform (here it's 28) and run

`sdkmanager "platform-tools" "platforms;android-28"`

Now you have adb, fastboot and the latest sdk tools installed

to install NDK directly run

`sdkmanager "ndk-bundle"`

## Build APK

Confirm that `$ANDROID_HOME` points to Android/Sdk directory

Make the NDK standalone toolchain
```sh
cd exokit
./scripts/make-toolchain-android.sh
```

Build the APK
```sh
./scripts/build-android.sh
```

If you want to now install and run into your plugged in device using adb
```sh
./scripts/install-android.sh
./scripts/run-android.sh
```

Commit message:

add dockerfile section to apk build instructions

docs/guides/exportOculusAPK.md, after:

---
title: Export XR site to Oculus Mobile APK 
section_title: Guides
type: guides
layout: docs
parent_section: docs
order: 1
section_order: 2
---

This guide explains how to package your XR site with the Exokit Engine as an APK for Oculus Mobile (Oculus Go, Oculus Quest) devices.

## Set default site
In the Exokit [main.cpp](https://github.com/exokitxr/exokit/blob/f10dadf0013de0a35a5e72046140a0345987ab80/main.cpp#L416) is where you will find the default site that the Exokit APK will load into. Change the `jsString` to your site URL or file path.

# OPTION 1- Docker
The upside of docker is that it requires minimal environment setup. The downside is that is will do _every_ instruction _everytime_ it is ran.

Building an APK with the Dockerfile is as simple as:

- `docker pull debian:latest`
- `docker build -f android.Dockerfile -t exokit .`
- `docker run exokit cat exokit.apk >exokit.apk`


# OPTION 2- Manual environment setup

## Prerequisites
Node `11.6.0`

## Install Android sdkmanager

Instructions for getting the android sdk manager, adb, ndk-bundle, etc:


To install it on a Debian based system simply do
```sh
# Install latest JDK
sudo apt install default-jdk

# install unzip if not installed yet
sudo apt install unzip

# get latest sdk tools - link will change. go to https://developer.android.com/studio/#downloads to get the latest one
cd ~
wget https://dl.google.com/android/repository/sdk-tools-linux-4333796.zip

# unpack archive
unzip sdk-tools-linux-4333796.zip

rm sdk-tools-linux-4333796.zip

mkdir android-sdk
mv tools android-sdk/tools
```

Then add the Android SDK to your PATH, open ~/.bashrc in editor and add the following lines into the file
```
# Export the Android SDK path
export ANDROID_HOME=$HOME/android-sdk
export PATH=$PATH:$ANDROID_HOME/tools/bin
export PATH=$PATH:$ANDROID_HOME/platform-tools

# Fixes sdkmanager error with java versions higher than java 8
export JAVA_OPTS='-XX:+IgnoreUnrecognizedVMOptions --add-modules java.se.ee'
```
Run

`source ~/.bashrc`

Show all available sdk packages

`sdkmanager --list`

Accept all sdkmanager licenses
`yes | $ANDROID_HOME/tools/bin/sdkmanager --licenses`

Identify latest android platform (here it's 28) and run

`sdkmanager "platform-tools" "platforms;android-28"`

Now you have adb, fastboot and the latest sdk tools installed

to install NDK directly run

`sdkmanager "ndk-bundle"`

## Build APK

Confirm that `$ANDROID_HOME` points to Android/Sdk directory

Make the NDK standalone toolchain
```sh
cd exokit
./scripts/make-toolchain-android.sh
```

Build the APK
```sh
./scripts/build-android.sh
```

If you want to now install and run into your plugged in device using adb
```sh
./scripts/install-android.sh
./scripts/run-android.sh
```
